docs: add installation tips and tricks page (#2442)
keptn/lifecycle-toolkit: docs/content/en/docs/install/tips-tricks.md

---
title: Installation Tips and Tricks
description: Supplemental installation information
weight: 38
hidechildren: false # this flag hides all sub-pages in the sidebar-multicard.html
--- 

The
[Install Keptn](install.md)
page documents how to install Keptn.
This page provides some background and more examples
that supplement that information.

## Umbrella chart

Keptn v0.9.0 and later is installed using a Helm umbrella chart.
This means that the Helm Chart that installs all of Keptn
actually groups subcharts for individual components
and you can install individual components
without installing all of Keptn.

> Keptn is installed using the
> [keptn/values.yaml](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit-charts/blob/main/charts/keptn/values.yaml)
> umbrella chart.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keptn is installed using the
[Keptn](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit-charts/blob/main/charts/keptn)
umbrella Helm chart.
```

Each subchart has its own README file describing possible configuration options,
but configuration changes for the subcharts are added to a single `values.yaml` file.
See
[Customizing the configuration of components](install.md/#customizing-the-configuration-of-components)
for an example.

## Installing older versions of Keptn

Installation of Keptn v0.9.0 has two significant differences
compared to the installation of earlier releases:

* Keptn v0.9.0 and later releases use
  the umbrella charts whereas earlier versions did not

> * Keptn v0.9.0 and later releases use
>   `keptn` as the value to the `NAME` option of the
>   [helm repo add](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm_repo_add/)
>   command whereas earlier releases used `klt`.

Reviewer: The helm repo name is not fixed by any means. Users can give their helm repos an arbitrary name. The more important thing here IMHO is that the actual chart name changed.
```suggestion
* Keptn v0.9.0 and later releases use
  the `keptn` Helm chart, whereas earlier
  releases used the `klt` chart.
```

To install a version prior to v0.9.0,
use the install command sequence that is documented for that release.

> To install the latest version use:
>   
> ```shell
> helm repo add keptn https://charts.lifecycle.keptn.sh
> helm repo update
> helm search repo keptn
> ```

Reviewer: Let's not repeat more commands here. We could just link back to the install page.
```suggestion
To install the latest version, use the installation commands on the
[Install Keptn](install.md) page.
```

> To install an older release,
> specify the version with the chart `--version` flag
> in the `helm update` command for the release you are installing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install an older release,
specify the chart version with the `--version` flag
in the `helm upgrade --install` command for the release you are installing.
```

---
title: Installation Tips and Tricks
description: Supplemental installation information
weight: 38
hidechildren: false # this flag hides all sub-pages in the sidebar-multicard.html
--- 

The
[Install Keptn](install.md)
page documents how to install Keptn.
This page provides some background and more examples
that supplement that information.

## Umbrella chart

Keptn v0.9.0 and later is installed using a Helm umbrella chart.
This means that the Helm Chart that installs all of Keptn

> actually groups subcharts for individual services

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
actually groups subcharts for individual components
```

> and you can install individual services

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and you can install individual components
```

without installing all of Keptn.

Keptn is installed using the
[keptn/values.yaml](https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit-charts/blob/main/charts/keptn/values.yaml)
umbrella chart.

> Each subchart has its own `values.yaml` file
> with parameters that are documented in its README file,
> but configuration changes for the subcharts are added to the umbrella chart.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each subchart has its own README file describing possible configuration options,
but configuration changes for the subcharts are added to a single `values.yaml` file.
```

See
[Customizing the configuration of components](install.md/#customizing-the-configuration-of-components)
for an example.

## Installing older versions of Keptn

Installation of Keptn v0.9.0 has two significant differences
compared to the installation of earlier releases:

* Keptn v0.9.0 and later releases use
  the umbrella charts whereas earlier versions did not
* Keptn v0.9.0 and later releases use
  `keptn` as the value to the `NAME` option of the
  [helm repo add](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm_repo_add/)
  command whereas earlier releases used `klt`.

To install a version prior to v0.9.0,
use the install command sequence that is documented for that release.

> Use the same command sequence documented for v0.9.0
> to determine the CHART version for the release you want to install:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To install the latest version use:
```

  
```shell
helm repo add keptn https://charts.lifecycle.keptn.sh
helm repo update
helm search repo keptn
```

To install an older release,

> specify that CHART version to the `--version` flag

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
specify the version with the `--version` flag
```

in the `helm update` command for the release you are installing.

## Example configurations by use-case

[Control what components are installed](install.md/#customizing-the-configuration-of-components)
discusses how to configure Keptn to include only the components you want.
The following sections summarize and give examples
of the configurations needed for different use cases.

### Enable Keptn Lifecycle Operator (Observability and/or Release Lifecycle)

If you only want to run the Keptn Observability
and/or Release Lifecycle use-cases in your cluster,
you do not need to install the Keptn Metrics Operator.
To disable it, set the `metricsOperator.enabled` value
to `false` as in the following:

{{< embed path="/docs/content/en/docs/install/assets/values-only-lifecycle.yaml" >}}

Note that, if you want to run pre- and/or post-deployment
[evaluations](../implementing/evaluations.md)
as part of the Release Lifecycle use-case,

> you need to run the Keptn Metrics Operator.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
you need to have the Keptn Metrics Operator installed.
```

You must also enable Keptn for each
[namespace](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/namespaces/)
on which you want to run either
the Observability or Release Lifecycle use-case.
This is because Keptn communicates with the Kubernetes scheduling mechanism
for tasks such as enforcing checks natively,
stopping a deployment from proceeding when criteria are not met,
doing post-deployment evaluations

> and tracing all activities of all deployment

Reviewer 2: It only checks if Keptn is enabled for the namespace (has the annotation), nothing more, please remove the info about scheduling mechanism

Author: Gladly!  Just for laughs, note that this has been the opening paragraph of the installation docs since before I started on the project ;-).

[workloads](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/)
on the cluster.

To enable Keptn in your namespace,
annotate the appropriate `Namespace` resource(s).
For example, for the `simplenode-dev` namespace,
the annotation looks like this:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  name: simplenode-dev
  annotations:
    keptn.sh/lifecycle-toolkit: "enabled"
```

You see the annotation line `keptn.sh/lifecycle-toolkit: "enabled"`.

> This annotation tells the webhook to handle the namespace.

Reviewer 2: it tells that the namespace is enabled for Keptn

Author: Anna added that.  I'm happy to delete.

If you are only interested in Metrics,
you do not need the Keptn Lifecycle Operator.
Disable it using the following values.yaml:

{{< embed path="/docs/content/en/docs/install/assets/values-only-metrics.yaml" >}}

For more information about implementing Metrics, see the
[Metrics User Guide](../implementing/evaluatemetrics.md).

### Enable Keptn Analysis (SLOs/SLIs)

To enable Keptn Analysis in your cluster,
you again do not need the Keptn Lifcycle Operator.
Disable it using the following values.yaml:

{{< embed path="/docs/content/en/docs/install/assets/values-only-metrics.yaml" >}}

> **Note** A preliminary release of the Keptn Analysis feature
  is included in Keptn v0.8.3 and v0.9.0 but is hidden behind a feature flag.
  See the
  [Analysis](../yaml-crd-ref/analysis.md/#differences-between-versions)
  reference page for how to activate the preview of this feature.
>

For more information about implementing Keptn Analysis, see the
[Analysis User Guide](../implementing/slo.md).

### Disable Keptn Certificate Manager (Certificates)

If you wish to use your own custom certificate manager,
you can disable the Keptn `cert-manager` by using the

> `--set "certificateManager.enabled=false"` argument

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`--set certificateManager.enabled=false` argument
```

to the `helm upgrade` command line

> or you can modify the `keptn/values.yaml` file:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
or you can modify the `values.yaml` file:
```

* Keptn v0.9.0 and later releases use
  the umbrella charts whereas earlier versions did not
* Keptn v0.9.0 and later releases use
  the `keptn` Helm chart, whereas earlier
  releases used the `klt` chart.

To install a version prior to v0.9.0,
use the install command sequence that is documented for that release.
To install the latest version, use the installation commands on the

> [Install Keptn](install.md/#basic-installation) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Install Keptn](install.md/#basic-installation)
```
